# Overview
The goal of this project is to use Neural networks integrated into Differential equations an an attempt to capture complexity in a predator-prey relationship. Model1.jl is a replication of Blasius et al's mathematical model for the specific predator-prey relationship(planktonic rotifers and unicellular green algae). Details can be found at: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-019-1857-0
A standard mathematical approach will be compared to a hybrid NODE approach and a standard lotka volterra approach. 

# Julia
All programs in this project are written in julia. To install julia on your machine follow the instructions at: https://julialang.org/downloads/
Alternatively, execute:

```curl -fsSL https://install.julialang.org | sh ```

in command line to install julia v1.10.4 .

# Data
C1-C10 are csv files containing experimentally determined predator-prey population data from a chemostat experiment. Data available for download at: https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/Time_series_of_long-term_experimental_predator-prey_cycles/10045976/1

Data_load.jl can be used to visualize the initial data. In the file, the desired csv file can be changed. To run the program in command line, execute 
``julia data_load.jl``

# Models
Model1.jl is the model for population dynamics generated by Blasius et al., who obtained the data experimentally. This is a replication of their mathematical model to predict population dynamics using ODEs. The code doesn't run as of now. -To execute run 
``julia Model1.jl``

Model2.jl will be a hybrid-NODE model, which integrates a neural network into the system of differential equations in order to account for extra complexity in the population dynamics.

Model3.jl will be a standard lotka-volterra model. -All model files should show example population cycle predictions once complete.